I'm Yvonne Man with David Ingles.
>> Good
morning. We are counting down to the
open of markets in greater China. Let's
get to your top stories today. Stocks
across the Asia Pacific rising. Oil is
headed lower on revived hopes of a a
peace deal with Iran even with a US
blockade of the Strait of Hormuz now in
place.
>> Washington and Tehran said to be
considering a new round of face-to-face
negotiations before their two weeks
ceasefire expires. China now calling on
the international community to step up
efforts to promote peace talks.
>> Also ahead, Singapore leading Asian
central banks in tightening policy over
the energy shock from the Iran war as
policy makers warn of risks and to
inflation and growth.
>> Plus more conversations here at the HSBC
Global Investment Summit including
exclusive with the bank's Hong Kong CEO,
Maggie Ng.
Welcome to the China Show. We are taking
it outside now live here at the third
annual HSBC Global Investment Summit. Of
course, we had already a really key
guest really talking in this last few
hours about really the first and
foremost Middle East situation and
really what they're seeing in terms of
client sentiment, wealth flows, what
trade flows looking like here and really
what we heard from Georges Elhedery that
the group CEO of HSBC was, you know, it
seems to be right now status quo for now
at least when it comes to that side of
the business. Yeah, he's obviously
previously before he became of course
group CEO of of of HSBC, he did head of
course that
uh business for HSBC. So, he's well
familiar of course with region and I
think one of the things he also pointed
out was
obviously staff and security is primary
concern of the bank, but he's also not
seeing I think compared to what he saw
and we'll get to this in a moment,
right? Compared to what we saw during
uh COVID and what we saw during the
tariff situation, right? We're not
really seeing a lot to your point in
terms of disruption there, but that
being said, they are still there's a lot
of uncertainty around
the oil price and that what that means
for their outlook and I think your last
question to him in that interview, what
are the risks he's watching and he
really had to spend some time to think
about how this what this really means
uh for their business, but all that is
also just to say that a lot of our
guests that we've spoken to have also
chimed in on this. And they have managed
to strike somewhat an optimistic note.
Obviously, we'll see how long this this
lasts.
Yeah, and I think the one thing that
Elhedery mentioned was that up until
this the situation, there was a global
growth that was looking very good and
the fact that, you know, global supply
chains and companies have really adapted
ever since COVID, ever since
uh of course tariffs. So, certainly, you
know, he he thinks that just like what
happened with COVID, businesses uh and
will bounce back from this as well.
Let's take a listen from Elhedery
himself.
The important thing to say is we're open
for business. Uh with huge support of
our customers,
uh we've been, you know, operationally
resilient throughout that period, of
course following government guidance and
request. But, we are open for business.
We've been in this region for more than
130 years. This region has has faced
challenges in the past.
After every challenge, this region has
come out of it more resilient, stronger,
and with bigger promise for the future.
And this time is no different.
COVID was a bigger impact
on trade flows and trade patterns and we
learned
everyone, businesses have learned how to
recover from COVID. So, frankly, the
moment the conflict ends, we can push on
the button and then in a matter of
month, we can go back to normal.
We just need to have this opportunity to
push on that button.
Yeah, and markets are kind of taking it
too in stride despite the fact that the
Strait of Hormuz has been blocked by the
US. You know, the the the talk of more
talks, right? And maybe possibly even
extending this ceasefire seems to be at
least helping sentiment here this
morning. It's certainly very different
from this time yesterday when we were
counting down to that blockade which I
think when we woke up this morning,
there was a blockade, but the markets
had reacted the opposite way because of
this opening in in talks. Let's get to
more details on this really and what the
latest in as far as that's concerned.
So, Bloomberg has been told to the point
we just made that the US and Iran are in
discussions about holding another round
of face-to-face negotiations before
their ceasefire expires next week. How
time how quick time flies. Now, earlier,
President Trump said Iran had reached
out to his administration after the US
began this naval blockade of the Strait
of Hormuz.
Right now, there's no fighting. Right
now, we have a blockade.
Uh they're doing no business. I didn't
like seeing boats come out
if they were doing business with Iran,
but if they weren't, no boats came out.
So, now
they're doing Iran is doing absolutely
no business and we're going to keep it
that way very easily.
Don't forget their navy is gone, their
air force is gone, their anti-aircraft
is gone, their radar is gone, and their
leaders are gone.
Let's get to our politics editor, Laura
Davison. She's with us in our Hong Kong
studios here right now. Laura, it's
interesting, right? We we thought, you
know, with this blockade, we would see
markets react more negatively, but it
seems like right now the whole hope of
diplomacy is still alive is really
keeping things and sentiment a little
bit better. What's the latest?
Yeah, so the latest is if you don't like
the vibes in these negotiations, just
wait 5 minutes because they they will
change and they and they have continued
to change. Uh yesterday, it was all
about saber-rattling. It was all about
you know, threats of of military
build-up and today, it's all about uh
the potential for talks happening uh in
uh Islamabad or elsewhere this weekend.
Um you know, the the the talks last
weekend broke up uh on sort of a sour
note, but this this weekend deadline is
important because it's just a couple
days ahead of when that 14-day ceasefire
is set to expire. Uh the expectations if
there are talks will be much less than
they were last time where there was at
least some hope that there could maybe
be some bigger uh you know, overarching
peace deal achieved. It's looking like
now that, you know, sort of the the best
thing that people can hope for is some
sort of a deal to extend that ceasefire
maybe a couple weeks or a month. Uh so,
the expectations have been lessened, but
there are you know, our our greater
hopes that the both the Iranian side and
the US side will again be able to sit
down here in the next couple days uh to
hash out what the next phase of this war
might look like.
Yeah, and I think markets are tend to
look ahead, Laura, as we all know and I
think as early as on Friday, Taiwan had
already started to break out of of that
range and the AI story has started to
sort of take over some parts of these
markets and I think looking at the
off-ramp here, let me just mention this
this this headline coming through out of
the journal that talks about how Saudi
is looking
uh to press the US to drop that blockade
in Hormuz and I think really brings to
mind something that came up when the US
decided to go through with that blockade
is how will allies react because also
their shipments are going through that
strait. Have we heard more in terms of
reaction from whether that's allies or
strategic rivals of the US and as far as
that specific blockade is concerned.
Putting pressure on the US effectively
on that one.
Yeah, we're seeing a really interesting
dynamic uh come to play here. You know,
Pakistan is sort of the official
mediator in these talks, but other big
allies and economies are sort of doing a
lot of the behind-the-scenes work. So,
you have Saudi Arabia who of course, you
know, is the Strait of Hormuz is very
important to them and their oil
shipments and having uh this US blockade
could also uh you know, harm their
ability to get things in and out and and
and and in the region. You also see
China playing a very similar role um on
the Iranian side. You know, China's been
pushing uh you know, both into the
ceasefire and then to continue these
talks. Um and so, that's kind of a the
dynamic we have playing out here which
is very interesting to watch of you sort
of have the the official talks
happening, but what's happening on the
sidelines when you have these major
economies who are very much affected by
the economic fallout here who are kind
of saying, "Hey guys, we need you to get
this together and and come up with some
sort of plan or else you're you're
there's a lot of collateral damage if
you don't."
Laura, thank you. Laura Davison there,
our political editor in our studios for
us. As we were just talking there,
markets are looking one way. They're
looking at this clearly still, but
they're looking also at this AI story
and other things of course to build on
these gains. Yeah, it used to be that
Taiwan, the Koreas were were the kind of
first ones to get hit. Yeah. Just given
where positioning was and I think now
that that's being washed out a little
bit, we're being a little bit less
sensitive to these headlines, you are
seeing a great amount of interest back
into these markets. In fact, this AI
trade seems to have come back in a big
way. Take a look at how the TAIEX is
doing here right now. Just coming online
here in the last couple minutes and we
are now hitting a fresh record high on
this comeback when it comes to this AI
trade. Uh we're already up about what?
25% this year. It's already
over over outperforming a lot of the
Asia overall benchmark here and TSMC
certainly has been helping with the
doing the heavy lifting there.
>> Yeah, and enough really given the
weighting of that stock. Uh you look at
other risks
uh a proxy strike now. A50 futures going
into the open today, it's about 21
minutes away from the cash market
session also pointing uh to the upside.
Just in terms of scope on the Asia
Pacific, MSCI Asia Pacific is now around
just 3 to 4% away from hitting
uh levels that we hit before the war
began. So, let's call it a good day or
two away from that. In fact, just on
that note on the Middle East story
coming up here in the show. In fact,
we'll be speaking with Eurasia
Strategies here at Jasmine El-Gamal, a
former Middle East advisor to at the US
Department of Defense and really her
take on how far we are from the end of
the tunnel, how visible is it and how
quickly can we actually get there? But
first, our exclusive interview with
HSBC's Hong Kong CEO, Maggie Ng. We'll
be getting her outlook for the city's
real estate, consumer wealth sectors,
talk about stablecoin, as well. Coming
up next, we're counting down the open of
trade in Shanghai, Shenzhen, and Hong
Kong. This is The China Show.
Hong Kong's role as the super connector
between China, mainland China, and the
world is stronger than ever. Hong Kong's
role as a global cross-border wealth
hub, and on track to become the largest
cross-border wealth hub before the end
of the decade,
is very strong. And Hong Kong's role as
a major capital markets, seen it from
the number of IPOs and the performance
of the equity indices, uh remains very,
very strong.
Uh and, you know, it's a thriving
economy.
That was Yoursel Hadary there, HSBC
Group CEO, speaking to us earlier about
really Hong Kong's role being that super
connector between China and the world is
only just getting stronger than ever. He
certainly had some very optimistic
things to say about Hong Kong. Of
course, they also got the the Rugby
Sevens coming up this weekend, too.
>> Yes. And stablecoin license, too.
>> And stablecoin
So, there is a lot of momentum here as
far as far as the bank is concerned.
Wealth
super connector, the IPO market has
obviously some momentum there. Joining
us exclusively, in fact, to talk about
the Hong Kong specific story of HSBC,
Maggie Ng,
Hong Kong CEO at HSBC. Good morning, and
very nice to see you. This is an almost
an annual meeting that we have here on
set. Thank you for having me again.
>> on
the the CEO role of
Hong Kong. Since September or October,
from what I understand.
>> October. Yeah. How has it been, 5 months
into the new year?
>> Like, I'm really excited by the
opportunity that I see. So, you know,
HSBC in Hong Kong, we've been a leader
position for many years. So, for us to
continue to maintain this leadership
position doesn't excite us anymore. We
want to grow. And the way we're thinking
of growing is on two strong pillars.
We've been We have a strong customer
base. We have about 7 million customers
and 300,000 corporate clients, and most
of them use us as their primary bank.
So, we have the natural advantage of
expanding the full wallet share with
these customers. So, we want to deepen
our relationship with our customers. So,
that's one part of the growth. The
second part is we've been growing
actively our new customer base. So, last
year, we acquired more than a million
new customers to our book. So, when you
grow new customers, everything grows.
The deposit grows, they bring in that
new invested assets, they have lending
needs. So, these are the two strong
pillars that we've been focusing in the
last couple of years.
You're still keeping your current role
of the head of retail, and also when it
comes to the wealth side of things.
Where where are you spending most of
your time now? Yeah, it's a 50/50 split.
Yeah. It's a crazy split.
>> a crazy split, yeah, between GIS and,
you know, the CEO role and the wealth. I
would say 50/50. And I'm particularly
pleased to see our momentum in the
wealth business. So, I mentioned we
have, you know, a lot a lot customers
base for us to tap into. We also have a
lot of new customers coming in. What we
are seeing with the new customers is
they are even more interest in the
wealth and investment space. So, for the
new customers that we are we are
acquiring, their asset allocation is
about 50/50. 50% in deposit, 50% in
invested asset, which is very balanced,
and also slightly higher than our
domestic customer base. And in order to
serve this customer well, we need to
enrich our capabilities. So, right now,
we have a well, you know,
strong suite of wealth products on our
shelf. We have more than 2,000 wealth
products. So, there's always something
for everyone. And we've also been
investing into our infrastructure. So,
we have five wealth centers now. And
each of these wealth centers is super
busy. So, we have about, on average,
about 100 client meetings per day per
wealth center. So, it's very engaging
with our customers, and we're investing
a lot into digital.
In terms of where the the sources of
these new customers are coming from, can
you just give us a rough breakdown of
the sources, whether that's
mainland China, parts of Asia, even the
Middle East, and given what we're seeing
you seeing any wealth coming your way?
>> So, so far, we are seeing a lot of new
customers coming from this region, and
mainly from mainland China.
In China, there are 15 million wealthy
individuals who are looking to diversify
their wealth globally. And when they
think of diversification, the first port
of call is Hong Kong. Right? So,
naturally, we're getting a lot of this
interest from the mainland Chinese
customer. In addition, we also get some
international and Asian customers coming
to our book.
Now, the funny thing with engaging with
the NRC customers is, and we call
non-resident Chinese customers, is they
have a completely different ecosystem
than our usual customer base. They never
pick up a phone call. They're not on
emails, right? They don't use our
typical social medias. So, for us to
serve this customer well, we need to
expand to another operating system. We
need to expand into WeChat, Xiaohongshu.
Those are the areas that we are
enriching our capabilities. So, in terms
of Middle East, we are seeing increasing
inquiries, but that's not, you know,
we're not seeing new flows coming in
imminently right now.
Just inquiries for now. Um
a lot of the optimism that we're seeing
in Hong Kong, not just when it comes to
the IPO market, is really what we've
been seeing in the property market.
>> Yeah.
Are you starting to see signs of
improvement Yeah. in the commercial side
of things? Have you seen, when it comes
to real estate bad loans, for example,
have we seen the worst of it? Yeah. So,
first of all, we are very optimistic
with Hong Kong's outlook. Right? So,
we're seeing, initially, some early
reads of consumer confidence bounce
back. The retail sales has gone up by
almost 20%. The property sales
transaction went up by almost 50%, and
we saw, you know, 14 million travelers,
visitors, coming to Hong Kong just in
first quarter of this year. So, Hong
Kong is a very resilient market, and we
are definitely benefiting from being the
gateway between mainland and the rest of
the world. So, in terms of the property
outlook, so retail market is
is is coming back, and we are seeing
transaction our expectation is the price
will go up at about 7% year on year. We
are consumer the commercial
>> This is residential. Okay, this is
residential. So,
commercial real estate, we think that it
has bottomed out, but it will take
longer time to recover, because there
are still a lot of vacancy that we need
to digest.
Okay, in terms of commercial. Now,
commercial, we can look at two, that's
office and maybe retail.
Is it accurate to say is the worst is
over for both?
Actually, the for for the office space
is actually in a slightly better
position than the retail space, because
we see our consumer, at the end of the
day, they're changing their behavior.
You know, restaurants are probably
better than the retail space, shop on,
you know, clothing and all. People are
changing the dynamics to online. So, I
think retail space will still need a bit
longer time to recover. How are you
looking at head count in Hong Kong right
now? I mean, obviously, growth in wealth
has been a key factor here. Are you
looking to add more staff? Yeah. And
where?
Yeah. So, well, the key focus is we are
here to grow in Hong Kong. And I
mentioned I have 7 million customer
base, so I can hire all the RMs in Hong
Kong and still not be able to serve our
customers adequately. So, on one hand,
we are focusing on getting more talents
at position of talent. But at the same
time, we are deploying AI to support our
staff, right? So, we've been in HSBC,
we've been embracing AI for many years.
We've used it for service qualities,
operation
efficiency, and also for, you know,
better risk management, like fraud
detection and all. Now, with the agentic
AI, what it's able to help is to help me
to bridge the current gap I have. The
current gap I have is I don't have
enough RMs to put in front of our
clients. So, with the agentic AI, I can
use this virtual RMs to help my RMs to,
you know, do a lot of operational work.
We can help, you know, use virtual CIO
to do research for our RMs. So, we can
free up time for the RMs to better serve
our customers.
>> the target, then, when it comes to head
count? Well, we want to grow in this
year massively into
more RMs for front to back. So, it's not
just an RM growth for us. So, last year,
we have invested
investment investment into
retail space in terms of RM, into in
terms of operating support, and also
also digital
rollout. So, last year, we've rolled out
more than 400 digital features in on
onto our mobile. So, right now, you can
pretty much live on our mobile app now.
You can earn, you can transact, you can
pay through our mobile. So, the
investment for us is not is important to
people, but also more important for the
ecosystem. And And do you think is that
a trade I'm curious, because
on the surface, one would think that's a
trade-off between if you do more things
on your phone, you don't it's less
visits to the bank, it's less need to
see your RM.
My sense from you is you're you need
more people on the ground, and also you
need more people to
to
upgrade your digital footprint. Is that
an accurate way to describe it?
>> a very accurate way.
>> it Why is it that So, a couple of years
ago, we've decided in Hong Kong, apart
from being the world's trust most
trusted bank, we also want to be a
fast-growing and forward learning
organization. And part of that is for us
to rewire our priorities to focus on the
millennials and the bank of the future,
building ourselves to be the bank of the
future. Now, right now, because of our
focus, our average customer age has gone
down by 5 years in a matter of 5 years.
>> Benjamin Button, huh?
So, you can say that we are reversing
the aging popular aging issue for the
bank. So, we are successfully acquiring
younger customers onto our board. And
we've also been focusing on, you know,
our infrastructure build and also our
digital asset capabilities. And so,
these are the areas where we think by
focusing on the digital space, investing
into digital, we will be more appealing
to the customer of the future.
>> can add stable coin as per your fully
digital bank Absolutely.
>> ecosystem.
Once things go live, what's what's the
vision here? What's going to be the real
use case?
>> Yeah, so our use case is very
straightforward. We want to enable our
stable coin onto PayMe. So, if you're
our PayMe customers, you can use stable
coin to pay your friends, to pay a
merchant, and you can even use this to
invest into a tokenized asset. Right?
So, it will make your investment journey
much simpler and much more seamless. Is
that for the retails? I Is there
Is there a potential for maybe more
cross-border sort of settlement with the
mainland?
>> So, at the moment, we are focusing
mainly on the Hong Kong domestic use
case, but we're watching the
development, right? We want to get the
use case and adoptability up first. And
then we will expand the use case to
elsewhere.
>> And that's this year?
This year we will launch the stable
coin.
>> Maggie, thank you. Yeah. Very nice to
speak with you. Thank you very much.
Maggie Ngai and there of course Hong
Kong CEO at HSBC. Right, the cash market
opens up in just under 7 minutes from
now. Let's have a look at where you are
on futures and the early indications are
trickling pointing to the upside 1%
there on the Hang Seng Index. The
opening about 6 minutes away. You're
watching the China Show. Good morning.
All right, welcome back. You're watching
the China Show. The Tuesday session is
>> Sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry. 4 minutes
away and we are all looking at an up
arrow story.
And I think I don't think so. Hong Kong
is joining in on that rally of 1%.
Yeah, yeah, I'll do whatever you need.
is also seeing 1.4%. By the way, we'll
talk about this later. We have some new
tech benchmarks here in Hong Kong. I
think we can sketch you later on, but
yes, it's uh
Yeah, that's fine. this time yesterday.
Yeah, you know, we were we were worried
about this whole blockage of the Strait
of Hormuz, which has begun, but then
again, there's this talk about, you
know, Iran is looking for more talks as
well. So, that is at least helping with
sentiment here this morning. You're
watching the China Show. You have the
open coming up next and more interviews
from HSBC GIS. This is Bloomberg.
Right, welcome back. Good morning from
the Asia Pacific.
You're watching the China Show we're
coming to you of course live from the
HSBC Global Investment Summit
here also in Hong Kong. Lots to talk
about here on the ground with the Middle
East of course front and center. There
are other themes of course taking place
across these markets. One of which is of
course markets
continuously see this off ramp, but that
off ramp continuously gets taken away.
But I think as we look at it today, it
seems that that off ramp is a lot more
visible than it was yesterday.
>> when it comes to what has been called a
very fragile ceasefire, that is still
holding at least now. Um despite the
fact that we have begun this uh straight
straight of Hormuz uh blockage by the
US. So, certainly that's helping at
least markets uh maybe look at other
sort of themes here. Let's bring in
Minmin Low. She's in our Hong Kong
studio checking on markets here this
morning for us. Minmin.
Hey everyone. Yes, we woke up to the
positive headlines this morning, right?
With Trump saying that Iran has reached
out to his administration to look for a
second round of of ceasefire talks, even
though Iran hasn't confirmed that. We
also have news of the Lebanon and Israel
talks being hosted by the US on Tuesday.
And here at the open, you can see we are
seeing a bit of brightness coming
through on Chinese equities. Certainly
not as much as what we are seeing in
some of the other regional benchmarks in
Korea and Japan, but still we are seeing
just slight upside here about 6/10 of a
percent on the CSI 300. We are taking a
look at some of these large caps seeing
declines here on Kweichow Moutai, CATL.
These are two stocks that we are
watching here because they are reporting
earnings this week. CATL as well, our
team at the deals side reporting that
they are looking to raise a $5 share
sale. That could perhaps be what is
weighing on the stock here. It is
expected to possibly surprise us to the
upside tomorrow when it comes to the
earnings the first quarter earnings and
analysts are saying that this is one of
the stocks that are most vulnerable to a
short squeeze because of that strong
rally, strong demand in that push for
renewable energy and AI demand
and that need for backup storage for
these data centers as well. You take a
look at some of these commodity names as
well. Catching a bit here, Shanghai
Group coming down a little bit by about
half a percent on the back of those
ceasefire talks. You flip the board take
a look at how Hang Seng is doing as
well. And certainly this morning going
into the Asian session, we saw a big pop
when it comes to the Korean Kospi shares
hitting close to 6,000. We are seeing
gains here as well on the Hang Seng tech
again to a smaller extent about 1 and
1/2% to the upside, but you can see here
the big tech names, Tencent, Alibaba,
Baidu Baidu leading gains here up by 4
and 4.6%.
Also watching some of the small uh tech
startups like Minimax, which is fighting
this uh lawsuit in the US against Disney
and other studios uh because of
copyright infringement or alleged
copyright infringement, but the company
seems confident that that lawsuit is
going to be dismissed. Now, we are
heading into uh earning season as well.
You flip the board and take a look just
a look back at how fourth quarter
earnings has performed, right? And you
can see this here. If you go to EA go on
the terminal, it shows you the
percentage of firms that had surprised
us. So, 60%
uh saw negative surprises. 35% of
companies reported positive surprises on
the MSCI China index. So, this is not a
very good-looking report card and
certainly investors as they look past
the war on Iran, they're going to start
shifting focus back to the macro overlay
and the fundamentals of these companies.
And as we look ahead to the first
quarter earnings, we're going to be
monitoring very closely how strong that
re re that demand is when it comes to
domestic consumption.
Minmin, you forced my hand here because
you frame it that way. I need to ask you
now about the credit numbers. Speaking
of fundamentals, I think they came out
yesterday.
And I almost forgot. Trade numbers are
coming out today. Give us a preview.
pointing misestimates and you can see it
is actually the worst that we had seen
since about November of 2024.
In terms In terms of uh total
outstanding credit, we're talking about
less than 8% here. And this is in part
because of a decline in government
financing, bond financing. So, perhaps
the pace of this government bond
issuance have been slowing down perhaps
because the government has been seeing
some positive headlines with the PPI
turning positive. But what's more
worrying is this outstanding yuan loans
is hitting below 6%, hitting a fresh
low. And that comes from a slowdown in
new loans, whether it's corporate loans,
household loans, short-term loans, or
long-term loans. All of that seeing on
year and that really doesn't bode well
for the long-term consumption recovery.
You take a look at what we're expecting
in terms of trade data as well. We are
expecting a big pullback in exports
growth, 8.6% versus 40% last month, but
this is quite an anomaly last month. So,
we're expecting exports to normalize. We
expect to feel the impact from the
global slowdown because of the Iran war
as well. Imports expected to hold up
well at 13.9% and what's interesting
here is that we used to see this
two-track recovery with exports doing
much better than imports, but this is
starting to flip. So, does that mean
that consumer demand is picking up or is
it mainly because of energy prices
spiking and that is pushing up the
energy portion of the imports numbers
here. So, that's certainly something to
dig to dig into when we get the numbers
later today.
Yeah, we'll wait for that. Minmin, thank
you so much. 107 billion in the trade
surplus in a month when the war began is
quite a number and just in time. I think
that's one of that should be if it's
107, one of the biggest monthly trade
surpluses that we've seen ever
uh out of China. Right, more in the war
really ends is is the end visible? Is
the key question. Joining us here in set
at the HSBC Summit is Jasmine El Gamal,
founder and CEO of Averroes Strategies.
Good morning and very nice to see you.
You must be very busy. Yes, that is an
understatement.
>> Thank you for taking giving us part of
your time. Of course. How are we any
closer to the end?
At this point in time, how close are we
to the end? Well, thank you so much for
having me. Of course, that's the
question on everyone's mind is when does
this end? And I think I would say that,
you know, in a successful pathway to
conflict resolution here would entail
one or both of the parties feeling a lot
of pain, feeling like they have to come
to the negotiating table and take a
deal. That is not the case here. Both
parties, Iran and the US, actually see
themselves as being in the stronger
position, relatively speaking. So, it
makes them really reluctant to actually
make any concessions that are going to
be necessary to end this conflict, which
makes us think about outside parties
now. If these two parties are not going
to concede on their own, who is it in
the international community? China,
NATO,
the Gulf countries, Turkey, Egypt,
Pakistan, the mediator. Who is going to
be able to come in and help these two
parties really sit down at the table in
good faith.
>> Who has the most influence in your eyes
out of that list? Cuz China seems to be
downplaying a lot of their influence and
really pushing Iran to some sort of
talks or even a ceasefire. China's
downplaying its influence, but the
upcoming upcoming summit between Trump
and President Xi, if it if it stands,
it actually will act as some sort of
leverage or forcing function,
potentially. Because President Trump is
not going to want to go to China
from a position of weakness, from a
position of no leverage, bogged down in
a war that is embarrassingly long that
he hasn't been able to end against Iran.
His tariff strategy against China didn't
work. You know, there are all of these
different issues that that are weighing
President Trump down right now. So, this
function this summit could be a forcing
mechanism to try to get President Trump
to work with partners like China, like
the Gulf countries. Europe is less
influential, I would say here.
But the more the regional countries and
China to try to get to a position where
we start talking about collective
responsibility and collective action to
open up the straits and turn the
temperature down. Which it's it's April
14th, so it's exactly a month away, if I
recall correctly. About a month away. Is
that enough runway, you think, for if
for all sides to come because we tried
that on the weekend. Pakistan was there.
We tried to get someone else involved,
but that didn't seem to work. The
problem in Pakistan is that the Iranian
delegation, you saw the size of that
delegation. I mean, they came ready to
talk. They came ready to listen. The the
Americans came to dictate.
And that did not work because as I said,
Iran is not in the mood to be dictated
to. They don't see themselves weak
enough to have to stand for that. So,
hopefully now the Americans go back and
recalibrate. Okay, so this didn't work.
This means that we're going to actually
have to talk. How do we do that in the
best way possible? President Trump has
Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu in his
ear. That's the wild card here.
Netanyahu does not want a deal. So,
you're going to see over the next 2
weeks this balancing act between
Netanyahu on one hand, who wants to
finish off this regime, and a country
like China with the summit coming up
that wants stability and is going to
convince President Trump that they can
do it together.
What about this whole naval blockage of
the Strait of Hormuz the US has begun
in the last few hours.
Do you think that's enough to pressure
Iran
to come up with any sort of concession?
Or do you think that this could be
dragged out for
a whole a lot a lot longer than we
think? Iran,
think of the Iranian regime like a
submarine. It's meant to withstand
immense pressure. The more pressure that
is levied on it, the more they hunker
down. The more they double down.
Resilience is baked into their DNA as a
regime, ideologically, structurally,
militarily. And so, pressure doesn't
work with them. Why? Because yes, the
blockade will hurt them, but it will
also hurt the United States, and it will
also hurt the global economy. And so, as
long as Iran is able to levy pain
against its adversaries, it will last
long enough to get to a point where it
doesn't have to concede in the areas
that it doesn't want to.
We could call it semantics, but it's it
seems like it
Does it look like Does it look like Iran
Does it look like the US needs to
concede defeat in some way?
The US
can get out of this
it will be bruised, no doubt, and Donald
Trump's ego will be bruised. But he
could find a way to spin this
as as a win. If he comes out of it with
I think it's really going to hinge on
the Strait of Hormuz and how it's
reopened. If Trump is able to work with
partners to try to find some collective
mechanism to open the strait where Iran
is not the sole actor in charge, where
it's not levying a toll. If he finds
some way to get this collective
mechanism set up and use it to try to to
to
to get revenues to rebuild the region,
to give some to the Gulf allies, to give
some to Iran, then he will be able to
say, "I am the adult in the room. I
found a way to make this work for
everyone." But we're a long way from
that.
Um in terms of the diplomacy and the
negotiations,
what what can we look forward to in
terms of
Can we narrow the gaps between what both
sides want at the moment? Because that's
ultimately, I think, the nuclear program
was the reason why talks broke down last
week.
>> this is a really important question,
right? Like how large are these gaps
between the two sides? You know,
ironically, the same issues that
President Trump is trying to deal with
now were issues that were not
issues at all before this war started.
You know, the the nuclear program was
set back last year during the 12-day
war.
The Strait of Hormuz was open. So,
President Trump came in with this war
and created a whole set of problems in
addition to the problems they were
already trying to negotiate other than
the nuclear program, like the ballistic
missile program, like Iran's support for
proxies. These are two major issues that
people are not yet talking about, and
what a lot of people don't know really
or think about is that the nuclear issue
is not the sticking point. The Iranians
have compromised on it before. The JCPOA
proved that. It's the ballistic missile
program that they're not going to to to
make any any concessions on, and that is
a big problem for Israel, and it's a big
problem for regional countries, and
that's where the pressure is going to
come in. So, many many issues still on
the table. As soon as the ceasefire was
announced, I said the very very hard
work starts now. And I think we'll see
that unfold over the next few weeks.
Yeah, most of these issues seem like
non-starters, but hopefully they're not.
Ja- Yeah, hopefully.
>> One can hope. I mean, both sides are
going to have to make serious
concessions. No one is going to be
completely happy with the outcome, but
they have to be pushed to that outcome.
By someone? By someone else. Yeah,
exactly. Thank you so much.
>> Thanks for having me. Jasmine El-Gamal
there, former Middle East advisor and of
course at the United States Department
of Defense and now founder and CEO of
Afro Strategies. You know, it just in
fact on that note that we were just
talking about the the the Jasmine,
right? This come this summit that's
coming up between the two.
>> Yeah. Can we look at that as almost a
a very strong incentive for Donald Trump
to get get the job done? Yeah, and you
know, it's interesting because given
that China did in some ways help Iran
get to the table, you know, that gives
Xi a little leverage in all this as
well, right? So, you got to wonder if if
in fact, you know, is is Donald Trump
ready to actually go to Beijing and meet
with President Xi, too, given where he
is in this Iran situation, right? Yeah,
they had a good conversation with
Roubini about this yesterday. Yeah, and
he doesn't think it's going to happen.
The the the upcoming summit might get
postponed again. And here's the
reasoning, of course, from Nouriel
Roubini, who I spoke to this time
yesterday at the Greenwich Forum here
also in Hong Kong. Have a listen.
There's no way you achieve your goals uh
by mid-May. So, either you postpone
again the meeting with Xi Jinping or you
go there, but then uh
you know, uh it's not going to be a very
productive meeting cuz
before the war in you that, you know,
the Chinese had the threat of critical
minerals, and therefore you decide,
"Okay, I'm going to re-engage them and
try to try to some strategic
understanding that reduces for the time
being the tensions and so on." Uh now
all of this is off rail.
All right. Um
obviously, he's the one that delivers
the bad news always, Mr. Roubini. But
hopefully that you know, we'll still see
the meeting in May. But you know, in the
meantime, we're getting up we caught up
with some breaking news uh when it comes
to Canada. So, what we're hearing is
that the Prime Minister Mark Carney has
secured a majority government as
Liberals win that vacant seat. So, this
was a key special election
uh giving his administration essentially
the ability now to push ahead faster
with an economic agenda. So, the
Liberals now hold more than half the
seats in the House of Commons. That's
going to make it easier for Carney to
pass major law legislation when it comes
to some of his economic priorities
uh and really it was paid by really
winning these key districts, including
the likes of Toronto's University,
Rosedale,
uh also as well. So, certainly uh that
is a a big election win for Mr. Carney
here this evening. Well, we have more
coming up here at the HSBC Global
Investment Summit in Hong Kong. Stay
tuned for our exclusive conversation
with the CEO of financial market
infrastructure provider Euroclear. We're
going to be asking Valerie Urbain about
Asia-Europe capital flows, the
internalization of the renminbi, and how
the Middle East conflict is affecting
clients. For bloomberg.com, this is
Bloomberg.
Good morning and welcome back. You're
watching the China show. We're about 17
minutes into the cash market session.
One well
well, a pair of stocks that we're
tracking A&H shares of the same company
CATL. As you can see, we're down across
both, slightly more in terms of
underperformance here
in Hong Kong with A shares. Of course,
we have learned that Bloomberg has noted
specifically that the company is
considering mulling a share sale
in Hong Kong to raise up to $5 billion
here. Let's bring in David Sebastian,
our Asia ECM reporter. He has the
details for us. Dave, what do we know
about this?
Yes. So, uh CATL is uh considering a
share sale of up to $5 billion while
also leaving the options open for a
potential sale of bonds that can you
know, like convert into shares. And this
comes on the heels of its listing last
year that also raised more than $5
billion and was the world's second
largest last year you know, for IPOs and
share sales
first-time share sales. And you know,
this
comes also as the stock has you know,
like more than doubled over the past
year. So, that sort of sets the stage
for a fundraising like this. But, having
said that, you know, like CATL would
also have to battle with the volatility
in the market especially as the war goes
on.
Okay. So,
at this point yeah, you mentioned right?
The timing wise might not be the best
time to really do something like this.
Yes. But, having said that, you know,
like the results people are sort of you
know, like uh
eyeing the
you know, like like for for you know,
like the first quarter results later
this week. And
you know, like the stock has also done
quite well. So, there's that to sort of
support the share sale. But, at the same
time, you know, like to say the least,
the first quarter in Hong Kong has been
quite eventful with number of headwinds
that people did not fully expect like
the war as well as you know, scrutiny
from you know, like Hong Kong and
Beijing officials on Hong Kong IPO
applications. So, there's that in the
mix. But, bankers overall are still
expecting
flow of deals especially big ones like
these
as well as big IPOs like that of you
know, like you know, like Syngenta
that may raise up to $10 billion this
year. And this week alone, we also have
Victory Giant the PCB maker that's
eyeing up to $2.2 billion.
So, there's still a flow of deals
despite all this volatility.
All right. Still looking pretty busy for
you guys it seems, Dave. Thank you. Dave
Sebastian, our Asia ECM reporter joining
us
in Hong Kong. Now, just some other
corporate headlines that we've been
tracking for you this morning. American
Airlines shares climbed in late trading
after Bloomberg revealed that United
Airlines CEO Scott Kirby is said to have
floated a possible combination. Now, our
sources say Kirby has pitched the idea
to senior government officials, though
it's unclear if an actual process is
underway to explore a deal. A merger
would create the largest airline in the
world and would face intense scrutiny
even under the business-friendly Trump
administration.
Ford CEO Jim Farley says Chinese
automakers should be barred from selling
cars in the US saying they're
devastating for American manufacturing.
Speaking on Fox News, Farley also said
Chinese-made cars imported into Canada
should be kept off US roads. President
Trump has slapped a 100% tariff on
Chinese-made EVs.
And we're taking a look at Geely has
unveiled an AI-powered hybrid
gas-electric vehicle platform to compete
against Japanese automakers in a sector
pioneered by Toyota. Geely says its IHEV
system consumed just 2.2 L of fuel per
100 km during a test drive. That's about
105 mi per gallon. Toyota's Prius
clocked about 2 and 1/2 L
per 100 km in a 2024 test.
Yep. You can rewatch that
well, this this bunch of readers that we
just did if you want if you want to
rewatch that back. Or if you scroll back
a little bit more, we just had a
conversation here about the Middle East.
So, slightly more we had Maggie on of
course, HSBC Hong Kong CEO. So, I mean,
take take your pick really which part of
the show you want to delve into. The our
Bloomberg video hub subscribers can
explore live streaming news and
interviews all
of our Bloomberg TV shows of course on
deck on the back. So, check it out
bloomberg.com/videos.
We are checking markets here this
morning and yes, things are looking
better than maybe 24 hours ago when we
were a bit concerned about what this
whole full naval blockage of the Strait
of Hormuz would look like now that the
US has begun on that sort of operation.
It seems like markets are still kind of
moving away from that headline risk here
just given the prospect of maybe future
talks between US and Iran. That AI trade
comeback certainly is coming back in a
big way to go out of the Kospi is now
we're punching 3% higher. Japan is also
up about 2 and 1/2% and Taiwan we're at
a fresh record. So, yes, still plenty of
optimism when it comes to North Asia
this morning. Well, let's wait a day
and see.
But, AI has been a lot more pronounced
in in recent days increasingly in recent
days I think is the point. We are up
let's call it 8/10 of 1% on the CSI 300
about a benchmark. So, we're still
waiting on we will be we'll start
waiting on the trade numbers to come
through should be out at some point over
the next
one or two hours. We are expecting get
this $107
billion monthly trade surplus
monthly trade surplus for March. So,
we'll we'll see what the numbers
actually look like when we get those
numbers through. Broad look at risk
appetite out there and we are looking at
a flat US futures print. Brent is on the
way down. Lots more coming through here
from the HSBC Global Investment Summit.
Welcome back to the China show. As you
can tell, we are here live at the HSBC
Global Investment Summit here in Hong
Kong. Things are really kind of firing
up here right now. What a really time to
have a conference like this of this
magnitude just given what we've been
seeing with this Iran situation, what it
means for flows when it comes to trade,
wealth,
what we're seeing in the outlook for the
Middle East certainly has been a key
topic and on the agenda here today. And
certainly, we've got a lot of good views
about that especially Yeah, we have. the
group CEO George Elhedery. Who
previously managed the Middle Eastern
business of HSBC, right? So, he really
had some unique views on the region
a region of course that is close to him.
And then of course, as a global CEO,
he's really seen as far as flows go. So,
I think what was noteworthy about what
he said and I think the markets are kind
of reflecting it more and more recently
is in terms of disruption while it is
really painfully acute in one specific
part of the world, it's less
wide in terms of global consequence
compared to what happened during COVID
supply chain wise. Yes. And global
tariffs which affected basically
everybody. And those two things, right?
Have trained the world to be more
flexible with their supply chains. Which
is perhaps why we haven't yet at least
according to him yet seen the impact of
massive changes in trade disruptions
because they are global trade banks. So,
they do see those flows. And as far as
that, he hasn't really seen outside of
the Strait it being a a more story of
global consequence. Yeah, pretty benign
even when it came to just you know,
where wealth flows are things are kind
of pretty much open for business was
sort of the theme that he mentioned in
the Middle East as well. So, you know,
that is the sentiment as you're saying
being reflected across markets that
maybe things are are in some ways
dying down a little bit when it comes to
the temperature what what you know, the
Strait of Hormuz
has been effectively blocked by the US.
But, then again, there's talks about
having talks and I think that in itself
was enough for markets to go with it.
Earlier, we did talk with of course all
the guests here at the HSBC Global
Investment Summit on really what the
impact they're seeing from their
perspective. Let's take a listen.
COVID was a bigger impact
on trade flows and trade patterns. And
we learned
everyone businesses have learned how to
recover from COVID. So, frankly, the
moment the conflict ends, we can push on
the button and then in the matter of
months, we can go back to normal.
We just need to have the opportunity to
push on that button.
We think priced into assets at the
moment is the inflationary risk.
But, the longer this conflict goes on,
the more that inflation risk turns into
a
GDP and growth risk. We don't see the
straits opening quickly. And of course,
bringing oil and LNG back online will
take some time even after it does open.
So, markets going to continue to be
disrupted.
Remaining diversified, remaining in the
market we think is important.
In many ways, I think markets are seeing
through the conflict and are also hoping
for for for a resolution. We as LNG, we
have very little exposure to the Middle
East. So, what we're really helping is
helping our clients navigate the
uncertainty. We've been around for 190
years as a company. And so, we've seen a
lot of a lot of uncertainty in these
type of situations. So, we are we're not
seeing any any different flows from what
we normally see. And we're helping our
clients navigate and and we're we're
keeping a watch ourselves obviously like
everybody else.
A successful pathway to conflict
resolution here would entail one or both
of the parties feeling a lot of pain,
feeling like they have to come to the
negotiating table and take a deal. That
is not the case here. Both parties, Iran
and the US, actually see themselves as
being in the stronger position
relatively speaking. So, it makes them
really reluctant to actually make any
concessions that are going to be
necessary to end this conflict.
I think it has been a topic of
conversation here, what's going on
there. And just on the latest, so
Bloomberg has learned and perhaps why we
are seeing markets rallying, Indonesia's
coming online up 1% on that benchmark.
So, we have learned that the US and Iran
are in discussions about holding
another, so another apart from what
happened over the weekend, another round
of face-to-face negotiations before
for the ceasefire existing ceasefire
expires next week. This comes after of
course that blockade of the Strait of
Hormuz on the part of the US military.
Let's bring in our Bloomberg Horizons
Middle East and Africa anchor, Joumanna
Bercetche. She is with us out of Dubai.
Good morning, Joumanna. Thanks for
joining us. So, talk to us about how
critical this latest development is.
Yeah, you know, well, when we went to
sleep yesterday over here in the region,
we woke up in the morning thinking it
could have gone two ways, right? So, the
US blockade started late in the
afternoon in the region around 6:00 p.m.
Dubai time.
And there are lots of questions about
how exactly it was going to be
implemented and whether it would lead to
an unnecessary military escalation over
the course of the evening. And remember,
President Trump did actually post and
warn that any Iranian ship that would
approach or approach US naval vessels
would be destroyed. However, we are
waking up to news that actually the
diplomatic track is the angle that is
being pushed and evidently from both
sides. Our Bloomberg colleagues
are reporting that they're looking to
get possibly another in-person meeting
done by the end of this week. Again,
that is not being confirmed, but
definitely the intention is there. And
you've got to remember here that the
ceasefire in theory does expire on April
21st. We've still got another week or so
until that that timeline may have to be
extended or revisited.
And the mediators, we understand as well
from overnight reporting, the likes of
Pakistan alongside Turkey and Egypt have
been really working the phones, the back
channels to bring both sides together.
And one thing I just, you know, I I
think it was sort of
went under the radar yesterday because
we were so focused on this a naval
blockade decision by the US is President
Trump himself, when he put up those
posts on Sunday, described the meetings
as having gone well. He said most of the
points were agreed to. The one that
wasn't was the big one, obviously,
nuclear. And that was echoed by comments
by the foreign minister of Iran as well,
the spokesperson there also saying,
"Look, most points were agreed to apart
from two to three." And we understand
now subsequently that those two to three
points were number one, the Strait of
Hormuz, the US are trying to do
something about it. And number two, the
nuclear file.
Yeah, and how are people
in your part of the world in the region
really reacting to this? And and what is
going to be what do we look out for in
this next round of talks?
So, I think for the time being, look,
there are two things going on. And
number one,
the the strait and the fact that it is
still closed is an unacceptable outcome
for any Gulf state. You don't have to go
that far. Look at the numbers that came
through from OPEC yesterday. OPEC as as
a group, month-on-month production is
down 27%. You've got Iraq production
down more than 50%, Saudi Arabia down
more than 20%. So, you know, clearly the
longer this goes on for, the more it's
going to be damaging for their economies
and for all of these visions that
they've set out. And so, there needs to
be motion on the strait. And behind
closed doors, what people tell me is
they're actually quite endorsing of what
the US are trying to do here, blockading
the blockaders and removing one of the
points of leverage that Iran has when it
comes to the broader negotiations. Now,
at the same time, nobody wants to see a
military intensification once again.
Nobody wants to go back to that paradigm
that we had for the first 6 weeks. So,
incoming strikes and projectiles and
missile attacks has not been obviously a
good thing for the region. So, the
preferable outcome
is a continuation of negotiations that
leads to, as we've been talking about,
number one, diminishing Iran's nuclear
ambitions, at the same time reducing
their stockpile of ballistic weapons,
and also creating a situation where
they're no longer posing an ongoing
threat to their neighbors. And the
question is whether we can get to all of
that in the next 10 days. And then don't
forget the other big one that's also
happening, parallel track, are those
talks between Israel and Lebanon as
well. Direct talks are taking place in
the US today. There's been lots of
discussion about whether you can
dislodge the Lebanon question away from
the broader regional picture. And again,
you know, the topic of proxies is a big
one for the region, too.
Joumanna, thanks so much for joining us.
Joumanna Bercetche there, anchor of
Horizons Middle East and Africa in
Dubai. I'll come back with next. We're
going to get the take from Euroclear
Group joining us for an exclusive
interview here at the HSBC Global
Investment Summit on the impact of the
Iran war and her company's expansion
plans in the Asia Pacific. This is
Bloomberg.
Right. Welcome back. You're watching the
China show. We're coming to you live of
course here as you probably already
know. This is not our normal studio.
It's in the background here from the
HSBC Global Investment Summit taking
place nearby. Our studio, I won't tell
you where exactly. You can find it
online. Anyway, we had a conversation
earlier on with the CEO, Giorgio
Hadjiev, who actually told us that COVID
had a bigger impact on trade flows than
what so far this all the ball that this
Iran war has caused. And speaking to us
exclusively here at the summit of
course. He covered a lot of other
things. He also explained why HSBC
believes in the longer term prospects
specifically of the Middle East.
Of course, we're saddened and concerned
with what's happening in the Middle
East. And we're concerned not just with
what's happened, but also with how long
this will take.
Our immediate priority really is to uh
support our colleagues. We have more
than 10,000 people working in the Middle
East as a region.
Support their safety, security, and
their well-being. And we've been doing
that very actively over the last uh
few weeks.
Um
but the important thing to say is we're
open for business. Uh we're here to
support our customers.
We've been, you know, operationally
resilient throughout that period, of
course, following government guidance
and requests. But we are open for
business.
We've been in this region for more than
130 years. This region has faced
challenges in the past.
After every challenge, this region has
come out of it more resilient, stronger,
and with bigger promise for the future.
And this time is no different. We
continue to believe in the long-term
prospects and the promise that this
region has.
And we're here to support our clients
through rough times when there are rough
times. Be it those customers in the
Middle East or those international
customers operating in the Middle East.
And we will see it through together.
As someone who's very familiar with the
region, and you you've just reiterated
your commitment to the Middle East, a
lot of people are wondering as a source
of capital, as a wealth hub, these big
cities like Dubai for example, what the
future holds for these cities as
financial centers. Do people need to
rethink that or is there nothing to
rethink?
There has been a
a global trend of diversification of
booking centers that's been taking place
for a number of years now, specifically
by our wealth management customers.
>> Right. So, they've been using booking
hubs such as Hong Kong of course, such
as Singapore, such as the UAE, both in
Dubai and Abu Dhabi, such as
Switzerland, the UK, the US. Um and they
have naturally been diversifying their
wealth to be managed across multiple of
these hubs, partly to be able to benefit
from the expertise that each market
brings, and partly as a matter of risk
management.
That trend continues.
In so far that this is
you know, this concerning the Middle
East today, frankly, we have seen very
benign movement. I think the resilience
of the Middle East as a long-term hub
for wealth management and capital has
not changed. But of course, everybody is
hoping to see the end of the current
conflict and praying to see the end of
the current conflict soon.
You're also a global trade bank. So,
what do you see in terms of
change, if any, of trade flows? Do you
see any of that since this war erupted?
And how's it different from maybe last
year when we were talking about tariffs?
So, trade has certainly been disrupted.
Now,
it's been tariffs of 2025 have disrupted
trade with the US.
This time we're seeing a major
disruption in trade
far beyond the Middle East, but in
particular towards Asia because of the
Strait of Hormuz closing. We believe
there are
multiple hundred, probably up to 800
ships that are still locked up in the
Gulf.
Uh and you know, of course the passage
daily 150 ships has dropped to maybe
five to 10 ships at best. So, that is
hugely disruptive.
The um
the um
the impact of such will be felt way
beyond the Middle East and that is one
very effective for us, not just in price
of goods, oil, uh refined products,
LNG and LPG, but also fertilizers,
metals, et cetera. Uh but it's also
going to be felt um in the availability
of such goods. And we worry that a
continuation of this conflict will have
that impact globally way beyond the
Middle East. Now, this being said,
COVID was a bigger impact
on trade flows and trade patterns and we
learned
everyone, businesses have learned how to
recover from COVID. So, frankly the
moment the conflict ends, we can push on
the button and in the matter of months
we can go back to normal.
We just need to have this opportunity to
push on that button.
There we go. That was the group CEO of
HSBC joining us here. Of course, as I
said earlier on, George Elhedery.
Uh we covered a lot of things. Uh so,
yeah. Uh you can catch uh the full
version of that on the video hub.
There's the
>> Yeah, you're going to be on stage with
him uh in just a few moments as well.
So, certainly that's going to be one
thing to watch. Uh joining us next
exclusively also as well as Valerie
Urbain, CEO of Euroclear Group, a
Belgian-based financial market
infrastructure group. You're basically a
depositor for central banks and for
major international uh investment funds.
What impact if any do you see from this
war in Iran?
Well, lots of the volatility. So, I
don't think it will be a surprise to
you, but fair to say that we have seen,
you know, major volatility and it
continues, you know? But um having said
that, I think that um we have seen
bigger crises beforehand, you know? So,
the market is still pretty resilient
despite all the bad news that we have
every day. It's quite a unique
perspective that you actually have given
your your spec- you you have a window
into flows. Can I build Can I ask you
follow up on that? Compare this to the
previous market episodes we've seen,
whether that's going back to tariffs,
COVID, or even further back. Yeah. Yeah,
I think it's a bit different. You're
right uh because um even though nobody
was expecting this war, but I I feel
maybe people have learned lessons from
the previous crises because, for
example, COVID had been way more
disruptive at the time that everybody
had to work remotely. Uh the tariff was
also something which was very very um
sudden and very deep, you know, in terms
of volatility. I feel that this one is
the the problem is more that the
volatility is lasting, you know? Uh
because almost every week people expect
that this will end and then bad news
come in again. So, I think it's more the
fact that there is a lot of volatility
on a longer period that is
characterizing this this uh period. A
lot of questions about
the the dollar outlook. I mean, just
given that
its dominance was really based on a lot
of, you know, a cross-border trade which
deals with a lot of oil. Um and and do
you think that's sort of narrative and
that theme is is eroding now? Given
that, you know, you are seeing non-US
dollar currencies being traded here when
it comes to the movement of oil. I think
the dedollarization is a topic which has
been there for a while. What we have
seen in 2025
is um you know, a lot more
diversification
uh taking place. You know, I I wouldn't
say that the people are leaving the
dollar, but whenever there have uh
investments ending, maturing in dollar,
in the past it was automatically
reinvested in dollar. Now they are
looking for more opportunities. And so,
there are a lot more interest in
European assets or in Asian assets. So,
I think the diversification is something
which is really coming into play in the
um capital markets.
I want to ask about your plans as a
business. You mentioned just before we
came on air, you'd just come from a trip
to Beijing. You're very frequently, of
course, a visitor in the region. You
have a footprint here.
What plans would you ideally like to see
with with mainland China?
>> Well, Asia for us is really an area of
growth. It is a strategic positioning
for Euroclear to be a lot more prominent
in in in Asia. You know, 1/3 of our
shareholders are also from this APAC
region. So, we have, you know, an
outstanding relationship with clients
for decades. And so, we believe that
there is a good momentum at this stage
because on one side there is a
development of the bond market in the
Asian markets. There is this plan of the
of the Chinese authorities to
internationalize the renminbi,
especially by offering uh access to
renminbi govies for the uh collateral
management purposes. Um at the same time
you have the savings and investment
union in Europe where you have 33
trillion of savings that needs to go
somewhere. And we believe that Euroclear
is very well placed to be the bridge
between Asia and Europe. And so, it's a
very good momentum for us to really
start deepening furthermore the
collaboration with all the market
players in Asia. And the third element
is about the digital assets. Digital
assets is something which is probably
redesigning or reshaping a bit the
capital flows. And I truly believe that
in the in a moment where a lot of things
are being reshaped, collaboration beats
competition. And so, it's very important
for us to be present in Asia, to listen
to our clients' needs, and to see how we
can collaborate with market local market
players in order to continue to act as
the interoperability
um operator, if you wish, between
different parts of the world.
In terms of the the yuan
internationalization, where do you think
we are in that process? I mean,
obviously this Iran situation might
speed it up a little bit, but in terms
of it being an actual full global
reserve currency. Well, I was in Beijing
last week and I've had the pleasure to
meet a number of market authorities,
market players. Um there was a quote
which I really take and and I really
find it extremely powerful. Uh the I've
been told that Chin- Chinese tend to be
very ambitious, but also cautious. And
and and I think that yeah, I think it it
will it will still be take time because
I think China wants to make sure that
they do the right thing at the right
moment. But I definitely believe that
there is an opening in trying to see how
we can bridge the needs and the
regulatory requirements of China with
the standards
the international standards that global
investors are looking for. And that's
definitely what I want Euroclear to play
as a role is to really translate, if you
wish, the needs of both sides.
And that you're quite a tech firm. How
do you How do you maintain, especially
right now where the the curve is very
very steep, and you have these emerging
blockchain-based settlement
infrastructures that
just to name one. How are you looking at
competition? How are you looking at
adopting technology? How are you How are
you trading?
>> adapting the new technology is a very
big theme in Euroclear, you know? Both
in terms of artificial intelligence, but
also in terms of DLT. So, we have
already uh launched a DLT platform for
two or four years ago. Now we are really
working with market authorities,
especially in Europe, on the scaling and
market adoption of uh for example, the
French commercial paper. You know, so we
have uh working on specific use cases to
try to demonstrate how the DLT can
indeed continue to improve the capital
markets. Another point is that last
yesterday I spent a day in Shenzhen
because it was also for me and for my
CIO the opportunity to really understand
how technology is evolving here. You
know, we have a um we have a partnership
with Microsoft, but it's also
interesting to see how the um
uh the the artificial intelligence is
being used and deployed at scale in
China. So, I think it's about also
continuing to learn, continuing to be
open to the new technology, and adopting
it has to continue to meet the our
clients' needs. What did you think of
Shenzhen? Very quickly.
>> I I mind-blowing. Yeah. Yeah.
>> It's It's mind-blowing in Shenzhen. In
30 years, what they've managed to do is
just incredible. Um talking about
partnership, we are definitely in favor
of partnership. You know, we're not
going to create everything on our side.
So, we better to try to use um you know,
competencies where they exist. And so,
yeah, we are open to partnership
everywhere. Thank you for joining us
today, Valerie Urbain, there, CEO of the
Euroclear Group. Lots more ahead coming
through here at the HSBC Global
Investment Summit.
Check it movers here this morning and it
is what has been a very battered sector
that is doing much better these days and
with software side of things. So, uh we
have snapped out of a three-day losing
streak when it comes to some of these
ETFs uh in the US when it comes to
software. So, even software is doing
quite well on the back of this relief
rally today. Yep, quite a relief rally.
In fact, some of the bigger movers
across the benchmark itself on a points
basis, you have China Mobile, you have
Baidu, uh and JD Logistics also coming
in line. Coming on your screens very
shortly. So, yeah, we are getting a lot
of support from many places in this
market right now. We're up 4% across
these names on your screens. Lots more
ahead. This is Bloomberg.
Right, welcome back. You're watching the
China show. We've been really, really
busy at the HSBC Summit. We've yet had
breakfast and the Japanese already
headed for the lunch break right now.
So, anyway, I think at some point we
will be able to get a break. Uh in the
meantime, let's get a sense of how
markets are faring going into that lunch
break session in Tokyo. And of course,
other things that we're tracking across
these markets. Min Min Low is with us
out of our Hong Kong studio. Min Min,
what's happening?
Hey David, I hope your cup of coffee is
coming to you very soon. But yes, take a
look at Japanese markets where we're
looking at 2 and 1/2% to the upside
here. Topics trading higher as well. And
generally, there's a lot of exuberance
on the back of oil retracing back under
$100 a barrel right now. We have two
rounds of ceasefire talks to look
forward to potentially. One is between
Lebanon and Israel in the US on Tuesday.
Potentially, another round between US
and Iran as well. Although Iran hasn't
confirmed the prospect of those talks.
But here, you can see the Japanese
10-year yields just paring back some of
the moves that we saw yesterday at one
point hitting the highest level since
1997. And so, we're still seeing at
pretty high levels, right? Above 2.45%.
So, that really shows you that the long
tail of inflation risk from the war is
still being priced in in markets right
now. Dollar yen also at a higher end of
things close to 160.
You take a look at how broader in Asia
and which sectors are the winners and
losers of this war. And of course, we
had seen so much inflows into the tech
stocks in Asia. I mean, talk about the
Taiex hitting a record high there. And
you take a look at all the sectors in
the green today. Certainly, infotech
over there has been leading gains up by
3.3%
here. The sectors that are not doing so
well, of course, energy coming off
slightly from the highs on the back of
the ceasefire talks. Real estate not
doing so well as well. But certainly,
Asia-Pacific stocks have been doing
pretty well today. 1 and 1/2% to the
upside doing much better than US futures
at the moment. We take a look at some of
the movers in China as well. And we have
seen this huge rally among the Chinese
software stocks. And yes, we have seen a
lot of dislocation in the US caused by
the likes of Anthropic. But in China,
some of these software stocks, they have
been very active in incorporating AI
into their services. So, that has helped
them remain resilient. And we're seeing
upside of about 6-7% here when it comes
to Kingdee, uh this Shatronic data. This
company provides both hardware and
software cloud services as well. Seeing
a pop of 20% on the back of that AI
demand. Baidu as well seeing strong
gains here. We're also watching CATL
because the company's reporting earnings
tomorrow. And our deals team reported
that the company is mulling a $5 billion
share sale, potentially issuing some
convertible bonds as well. And that
potentially would dilute its share
price. And here, you can see big drop on
the H shares. Perhaps a bit of that
arbitrage effect going on as well given
the H shares are trading at a huge
premium to the A shares. So, seeing
heavier selling on the H shares here.
All right, Min Min, thank you. Yeah,
uh shares are down. But certainly, it's
been a it's been a wild ride when it
comes to CATL shares since they listed
in Hong Kong. And Min Min Low there,
China correspondent watching these
markets for us here today. Uh let's talk
about Singapore, right? The central bank
has tightened monetary policy. Become
the first in Asia to respond to the
rising inflation risk from the Iran war.
It also raised the city-state's core
inflation forecast for the year and
expects a slower pace of growth in 2025.
>> Yeah, and uh it's a bit noisy behind us.
So, and also, of course, I was glancing
at my co-anchor there. April Hong has
been with us right now with the details
of that move coming out of the MAS. Uh
yeah, April, so they've clearly come out
of the gates leading the Asia-Pacific
here.
Uh what do we know and why did they do
that?
Yeah, they're leading the pack. They're
steepening the slope of the policy band.
This is a move that was as expected. And
this is significant in the way in which
they are leading Asia, becoming the
first Asian central bank to tweak
monetary policy settings in the wake of
the Iran war. To answer your question,
it's to head off these inflationary
pressures. But what is worth noting, as
you may recall, after peak COVID, the
Asian central banks in the region,
Singapore was actually among the first
as well to tighten. And that was at a
time where the Fed hadn't yet abandoned
the phrase transitory. Now, this time
around, the energy shock is already
showing up on the island, whether it's
in fuel or transport costs. But it's not
just about energy, it's also about food
because Singapore imports almost all of
its food. And it's really this idea of
how things could worsen, be magnified
amid higher transport fertilizer costs.
And the idea as well that what we're
seeing for the moment is just the early
stages of transmission that this could
also broaden in the months ahead.
Uh in terms of the reaction to the Sing
dollar, what are we seeing?
Yeah, that's an interesting one, right?
Because we've been seeing amid the war,
it's been a beneficiary of haven demand.
So, it has been outperforming in the
region as have the Singapore stocks. But
you're seeing it giving up some of those
gains this morning. The central bank did
avoid the so-called double tightening
because it steepened the slope. It left
the center and the width of the policy
band unchanged. But as some of our
colleagues on the M Live team have
highlighted, the Singapore central bank
is rarely one that does a one-and-done.
So, they're expecting further tightening
ahead in the year. And that gives you a
sense that maybe there is scope for
dollar Sing to go back to the 126
handle, which is something that we saw
in the month of January.
Uh April, just very, very quickly, grow
thinking around growth and the risks to
that thinking.
Yeah, we've already seen them signaling
how they're expecting a slower pace of
growth for this year compared to last
year. And manufacturing is a standout.
The vulnerabilities are there
specifically for the manufacturing
sectors that are dependent on natural
gas and crude. Those have already been
flagged by the leadership in the
country. And it's not just about these
energy costs, it's also the impact on
profitability for some of these sectors
as well.
April, fantastic. Thank you. April Hong
there in Singapore for us. But 2 hours
and 30 minutes of course from that
MAS briefing today. Lots more ahead here
on the China show. We leave you with a
look at the spread across the region.
Lots more ahead. This is the China show.
All right, coming to you live from the
HSBC Global Investment Summit. We're
going to move that aside here, really
focus on some earnings from the banks in
the US that came out overnight. Goldman
Sachs's equity traders rode the wave to
beat their own quarterly revenue record
by more than a billion dollars. You take
a look at what it comes to earnings as
well for fixed income, currency, and
commodities business. However, that did
fall some 10% from a year earlier.
2026 began with a degree of optimism.
Markets hit record highs. Confidence
continued to build with most clients
focused on growth, strategic activity,
and capital deployment.
As we've said, things rarely move in a
straight line. And as the quarter
progressed, the macro environment
started to weigh on sentiment.
Volatility increased meaningfully amid
concerns around AI-driven disruption in
sectors like software, heightened
uncertainty in parts of private credit,
and the conflict in the Middle East.
Yeah, the stock price actually really
reflected part of the story. Adam Haigh
is with us out of Sydney,
our Bloomberg financial editor. Adam,
why don't we start with that? Obviously,
market reaction was one of the things in
fact I woke up to this morning apart
from the other macro conversations in
Iran war, of course.
Take us through the Goldman earnings.
What do we need to know? What's the
context there?
You know, I think David really hits the
story of kind of two sides of of what's
happening in the business, right? We
obviously had a great quarter for for
equities trading. You know, it was kind
of no secret to anyone that it was going
to be pretty good number. I think people
were expecting that. And trading's been
very good. And they've been able to
benefit from from some of the volatility
that we've seen. So, on the one hand,
you know, you did have that that record
number there, which really stood out.
But I think the market was pretty keen
to focus on some of the areas of of
disappointment, which if if you look at
them were, you know, quite quite
concerning. I mean, the fixed income,
currencies, and commodities business,
you know, that that revenue slide there
is is quite significant. It's down about
10% on the on the prior year, right? And
$800 or so below what people were
expecting. So, you know, that that is a
pretty pretty kind of poor miss on on
that front. But I think, you know, some
of those things that that we heard David
Solomon there just just talking about,
um,
you know, it speaks to an environment
that's been a real challenge for for
everyone, but especially banks. And I
think this is a great example of how um,
you know, a a bank has made quite
significant uh, money in one area, but
it's struggled uh, in other areas. And I
think that's probably setting the tone
for for what we're going to be seeing
uh, in coming weeks when we when we hear
from more of these banks.
Yeah, his comments on private credit I
thought was quite interesting as well,
just given how long this credit cycle
has been. He says once things start to
turn,
you know, the the losses might be
magnified given just how long we are in
this cycle. Um, you mentioned about the
other banks coming up. Are we at JP
Morgan seems to be the next one. Do you
think they're likely going to echo what
we heard from Bowman?
Yeah, well, I mean I mean let's let's
see, you know, slightly different uh,
bank of course in the composition of of
how it's generating revenue. Um, so
there might be, you know, there might be
a bit of a bit of a difference there,
but we'll we'll soon find out in in a
matter of hours later. But just back to
your point on on private credit, you
know, this is something we've been
hearing from from David Solomon. I do
think it's a a really kind of pertinent
point to just focus in on is that
because we have been in this benign kind
of credit cycle, the economy hasn't
seen, you know, a severe downturn yet,
you've kind of been able to to gloss
over some of the idiosyncratic problems
that we've been in seeing in private
credit. And I do think, you know, it
just reminds people of of the fact that
if we do go into some, you know, more of
a prolonged downturn or or the economy
gets another kind of shock, um, you
might see more examples of of these
things coming out with with private
credit. So I do think private private
credit is still one one to watch and and
Solomon, uh, you know, very keen to
highlight that uh, we're still we're
still early in this in this cycle in
many regar- in in in many regards. So
you do keep an eye on on how that
progresses.
Adam, thank you. Adam Haigh, our finance
editor there with a preview um, after
the
uh, we've seen the Goldman numbers. JP
Morgan of course is next uh, on deck.
Right. Uh, so other corporate news out
of the US, have a look at shares of
American Airlines. Quite a big quite a
big move in the after hour session here.
Uh, what are we doing now? Up 5 5% give
or take there. That's after
uh, Bloomberg revealed that the CEO of
rival United after they floated a a
possible combination. Now a merger could
create of course the world's biggest
airline and pose some serious antitrust
concerns. Talk about regulatory risk to
that deal if in fact we get to that, but
let's get to the nuts and bolts of the
story. Danny Lee, our aviation and
transport reporter is with us to talk us
through this and the prospects, Danny,
of this mega merger. And and yeah, on
that last point, could that actually
pass competition authorities? What would
What would What would they think about
that?
Well, Scott Kirby, the United is feeling
emboldened because President Trump and
his administration has said he's it's
willing to support big deals,
particularly mergers in the aviation
industry. And for Kirby, who was a
former president of American Airlines
before he was passed over for the top
job, there was no pathway for him to
become CEO. He jumped over to American
to United and became the CEO. He has
said that he is willing to
uh, you know, stand all the the airline
is willing to buy up any assets and is
in a good position. Um, so Kirby has
been floating with senior government
officials a prospect of a mega merger.
The question really is is there
something actively happening at the
moment. When Bloomberg did ask both
airlines whether uh, whether this could
be the case, they both declined to
comment. Um, but when you do look at
this implication with the support from
the American administration, it's the
international uh, competition
authorities which could take exception,
particularly in in Europe and in China
because this could very much be bad for
consumers, particularly on international
routes. But you you do see this
combination potentially being worth 115
billion dollars in terms of revenue, 400
million passengers a year, 2,500
aircraft. So very much uh, top of the
pile when it comes to being the world's
biggest airline group if it ever came to
pass.
Yeah, you got to wonder if it makes all
is all sense, uh, Danny. Why do you
think United be looking
uh, into American? Why do you think
American could be a target here?
Well, United is in a much stronger
financial position. It is making
consistently uh, consistently good
profit. And American though on the other
hand is a lot weaker. Uh, has been
struggling uh, with a strategy on
profitability
uh, and also just it's not being able to
get the right assets at the right timing
and therefore has been lagging the likes
of United and Delta, uh, its two biggest
peers when it comes to its offerings.
And of course, uh, American Airlines is
heavily indebted to the tune of 35
billion. But when you do look at the
market valuations, American is only
worth 7.5 billion.
Uh, United is worth 31 billion. So uh,
there's a there's a lot of gulf between
the two. And when we broke the news uh,
in the past few hours, you did see
American's shares up almost 10% and
United up about a percent and a half.
Danny
>> Danny, well,
I have a question actually for Danny on
this. I think Danny Lee of if anyone on
the planet could answer this question,
it's Danny Lee.
So Danny, American is One World.
I believe United is Star Alliance.
First world problem question here. How
do frequent flyers need to be looking at
this merger? Which flag eventually gets
carried by this merger? How do we
How do I approach this conundrum, Danny?
I think the official answer is it
remains to be seen, but clearly if
United is is holding all the cards here,
then very much it could try to pull uh,
American into the the kind of Star
Alliance orbit. But I think we're so far
away from anything happening at the
moment. I think frequent flyers,
particularly in this region, can be rest
assured that nothing should be on the
table for quite some time.
Yeah, hold your points. For as long as
you can.
Use them while you can. Danny, thank
you. Danny Lee there, AJ Aviation and
transport reporter and of course
frequent traveler
>> Yes. himself. Yes. You can rewatch of
course all that's happening here uh,
when it comes to American, when it comes
to United, also all the segments uh,
here in our Bloomberg video hub. Right,
plenty of interviews coming through from
the HSBC GIES event. Subscribers can
explore live streaming, news, and
interviews, all our Bloomberg TV shows,
documentaries, reporter analysis, and
more. Check it out at bloomberg.com
videos.
As the war in Iran rattles global energy
markets, soaring US electricity costs
are burdening consumers and really
stirring voter anger. Our team at
Bloomberg Originals takes a closer look.
Power bills have become central to US
politics in a way that experts say is
completely unprecedented in modern
history. In this chart, we can see the
average electricity demand across US
cities from 2010 to this year. From 2020
onward, demand increases sharply.
Last year alone, we saw electricity
prices rise by more than double the rate
of inflation. The cost of electricity is
to the 2026 election what the price of
eggs was to the 2024 races. The war in
Iran also is upending global energy
markets, making not just power, but fuel
costs a political issue.
We're here in Pennsylvania's 7th
District to talk to voters. This is a
swing district. How this race goes is
going to say a lot about US midterms.
Republicans are fighting to hold on to a
razor-thin margin in Congress, and
Pennsylvania's 7th is a crucial
bellwether for how this issue of power
bills is going to play out in the
midterms.
Last year Democrats cleaned up. They
swept to victory in Georgia, New Jersey,
and Virginia. And the issue all came
down to one really important thing,
power bills.
Pennsylvania's seen a 40% increase in
its electricity costs since 2020, and
voters here are really mad about that.
I've been a resident of Slatington,
Pennsylvania for 31 years. I retired in
2018. Since then, I have been keeping
track of my daily usage as well as what
my monthly bills are.
>> What have you seen here in terms of what
you used?
>> the usage is similar with air
conditioners, but the daily cost has
gone up. The total cost has gone up to
now $97.64
versus the $58.08.
>> Wow, that's almost a 70% increase.
>> Exactly.
We're going to talk with Carol O'Bando
Destie. She's one of the Democrats
running here in the 7th District. She
worked for a decade for the local
utility here, PPL, and she says she's
the kind of energy expert that Congress
needs for these high energy bills that
have made so many voters really angry.
That's my personal self.
What are you hearing from voters about
what are their biggest concerns?
Affordability is the single biggest
issue that I hear about on the campaign
trail. The rising cost of utility bills
are very important in this race. I hear
about it from working moms, from
seniors, and even my pastor was talking
about the double-digit increases that
he's seen. Who do you think is to blame
for power bills going up?
>> It's not so much blame, it's just the
demand on the grid. Power bills are
going up because of the data centers.
They're energy hogs. And what does that
do to cost? If it's not done correctly,
it can drive up costs. It's important to
have a watchdog in Congress who
understands this.
In areas with a lot of data centers, the
wholesale price of electricity is 267%
more than it was about 5 years ago. US
power demand is set to go up 20% by the
end of the decade. That's a lot of
economic opportunity. We're talking data
centers, factories, but it's also a big
political liability. High power bills
are hard for politicians to manage both
on the supply side and on the demand
side. If those costs land on voters,
they're going to be really mad.
So, we're in the northern side of the
7th District now to meet with US
Congressman Ryan McKenzie.
>> Here, Congressman Ryan McKenzie. Like a
lot of politicians, he's focused on
affordability.
What are people worried about in terms
of prices increasing and them worrying
about making ends meet? I always say
it's in two categories. It's the two F's
and two H's, food and fuel, housing and
health care. In our local community,
what we hear is that they are seeing
increase is their cost of electricity. I
think it's traditional supply and
demand. On the supply side, I don't
think we've been adding enough supply
and energy to our electrical grid, not
just in Pennsylvania, but across the
country. And then on the demand side,
obviously, there are new technologies
that everybody's talking about that are
taking up more and more power. If you
can get all the different tech companies
and data centers to sign on to some kind
of framework or understanding of this is
what we want to do. Come November,
hopefully, we're going to be able to
show real progress on a lot of these
fronts.
We're here this afternoon for a historic
signing that will help keep down utility
bills very, very substantially and
electricity prices for millions of
Americans. In early March, President
Trump gathered together executives from
the biggest tech and AI companies and
signed a non-binding five-point pledge
promising to take care of their own
power generation and not drive up
everyone else's power bills. Whether
those big companies follow through on
this and whether voters notice and it
gets political traction is a big
question in these November midterms.
So, are power bills something that your
friends and your neighbors talk about?
Regularly. On Facebook, in person. I run
social events for a ladies group
affiliated with AARP and once a month we
get together for lunch and the number
one topic was, "How much was your
electric bill?" "Oh my god, wait till I
tell you how much mine was." It was the
number one topic of discussion.
Well, what about the little guy? What
are you doing for them? I will support
anyone who, regardless of party, can
make affordability not only words or
promise, but a fact. Show me your path,
what you're going to do to make things
affordable. People are suffocating,
people are hurting, and we need help.
All right, so that's really is the
energy side of things. In terms of the
markets, you know, you got to wonder how
much has investors moved on from the
whole Iran situation just given the
really rallies that we're seeing across
the board here in Asia. Taiwan still at
those fresh record highs. You take a
look at how the rest of the region is
looking. We're still around those
session highs for the Asia Pacific here.
We're seeing upside of more than 1%. Uh
looks like that China data just crossing
through your terminals. Uh and here's
what we're seeing when it comes to
March. In dollar terms, get this,
rising 27.8%
exports rising 2 and 1/2% daily. Yeah,
missing the target on estimates. We'll
unpack these numbers for you and later
on Bloomberg Television Insights with
Haslinda Amin is coming up next. This is
Bloomberg.